Moscow was never Rus for the Greeks
Is that what you think for no one Moscow
was never Rus Why Because Rus is like that
there too Slavic tribes lived there too
Yes, there are still Slavic tribes in Poland
and
what Oh hello You've been gone for a long time We already
miss you there things  Normally so
put a plus Who remembers
our colleague on streams not you did not
go out chat roulette for a long time or just like did
not come across did not come across and Yes so it
happened once a month understood a long time ago It
happened that came across there almost
every week And here what you  do you
think Now Russians about the arrival of Trump
and his
first steps And in relation to Ukraine in
relation to Russia How did he do it he
said Russia Yes Putin said that Putin
Stop this war otherwise it will be worse and so he
said well he will
solve American problems more so Russia - that is
American problem one of the main
American problems the main problem
is China American I say one of the
main problems And how does Russia threaten
America well let's say not that it threatens to
become a potential  ally of China and
North Korea we already see these shifts
Well
firstly we have 5,000 km of
common borders with China and we can not argue with them
under any circumstances The Americans in the
nineties made attempts to
pit us against the
Chinese, fortunately our diplomacy
managed to cope with the Chinese  to
settle down there somehow built
bridges as if we were fighting with the Chinese not
on And during the Soviet Union, the
Americans also set the Soviet Union
against the Chinese Well, there Aun, he
wanted more land for himself Yeah, they
bombed this Damansky Island, they couldn't divide it In the end, they
sunk it  there was something like that in my mesh
from
Blagoveshchensk he was a tanker and
told How the Chinese built a city
opposite
Blagoveshchensk So they took bricks on
their backs and dragged them there
they built twenty-story buildings without
crowns it's a terrible
sight and the Chinese
asked a lot to build a house build a bridge
they built it through Ar Blago because they were very
afraid that they were there. That's why the bridge could be
like that there.  things
to produce
But believe me China is closer to us than
America and we will not quarrel with it in
any way because you are not
Europeans in Spirit you are Asians you are the
Horde we are not
Yes we are not the Horde Well you know you are also average
Ukraine
dream skin pigmentation is darker than
Russian  and brown eyes or there well basically
that Brown eyes brown eyes in European
nations there are a lot I mean that you you
Mongols you Well look at the Poles here are the
Poles It seems to me in terms of genetics they are the
same as Ukrainians That's exactly
like Ukrainians not  look at the plo
groups Ukraine and Poland directly and Russia
the same thing Radina no Russia No Russia
% of Russia's population Radina itself is a group No
no no look at this even the maps like
Rodina are not like that at all
I can tell you from ra
about China Like that's how it turns out  you
Look, uh, Putin Oh, not Putin but Trump
needs denazification
in order to further incite China to the
Far East to Blagoveshchensk As you
say and so on for
them  this is not necessary Why is the climate there
not suitable for them so they will get resources
from there the Chinese the Chinese are heat-loving they
love the subtropics somewhere there in Beijing the heat is
constant there you know And everything that is North
of Beijing the lands are of interest to them they
built a whole city for a million people
Yeah And it settled there  20,000 Chinese they
said we don't want to live in the desert there
It's cold here there's a desert nearby
they're not interested in these lands Why does China need Tibet
Why does China need the Indian Uyghur Autonomous
Region Well, India is
their border
they're much more interested in Kazakhstan
and Central Asia in terms of resettlement back in
Mazda era they developed a plan for the
settlement of Kazakhstan that on the territory of
Kazakhstan there
will fit as many as 800 ml of
Chinese this is the first time I hear this is
interesting that's what my teachers told me at school
history teacher And this is the
school teacher understood cool
teacher yes that is I had good training
that is Man decided that  It is better for the Chinese to
live no closer to the sea or ocean where the
transport arteries are. And to go to  deep into the
continent to Kazakhstan where Kazakhstan
by the way the state is the most remote from the
sea from the ocean
Well in short the Chinese Oh I've been to China three
times I know what kind of country it is they all
want how I was near the sea I was in Shanghai
I was where these Uighurs live  Well,
nearby Well, in Xin
Urumqi, that is,
there, so I can tell you that
this is China, very
[music]
diversity and people from Krasnodar will
not understand each other at all Come
on,
yes, our language was very strongly influenced by
Church Slavonic because
your  artificial language yes that is your
language no your language is a corrupted Finno-
Ugric words and Turkic
Church Slavonic Well you compare
Ukrainian and Russian there are a lot of
coincidences of words 70%
less because Ukrainian is a
Slavic language Church Slavonic is also a
Slavic language Yes that's all That's why it's
a coincidence  Well, when did the
Ukrainian literary
language appear? Well, look, the Aeneid already
existed, yes. That is, earlier than the Russian
literary language,
well, Pushkin  look also Pushkin
later Pushkin is such a 10th century
Kotlyarevsky earlier life life of the
vacuum 10th
century powers on Pushkin Look here about
literature this is written now like this this
is written now now now
So wait wait stop stop
stop [ __ ] 1842 so
yes Pushkin died in thirty-seventh like
yes, look at the literary Ukrainian
language If you want to look
at the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, then from the 10th
century what was the official language there,
Lithuanian No, all the Lithuanian
princes up to Alexander some who
died somewhere around that year spoke Lithuanian and then they
began to speak  Polish
look again take it for the sake of it's interesting google it
google it now What was the official language
in the Grand Duchy
of Lithuania Western Russian will write Well take it
again on Google No well and then the
Poles subdued everything for themselves here to the
Poles to the Poles write write now
here for the sake of it
I'm interested in what language the West is in Russian the Western Russians we have your language ours what language is it Well Ukrainian Ukrainian language you call Western Russians Yes from the times of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania Well damn well when the first word when Ukraine when it was a border territory was called like that any Kola Kola Ukraine in Murmansk Ukraine was funny Western Russians look at this in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania uh officially was Russian language language of Kievan Rus no Western Russian And so on it was never there was only Russian language it was here in Rus' from it Yes uh formed languages from them formed modern Belarusian and modern why I read yet no more no Western Russian We didn't have it you came up with Well look you have a constitution the so called Constitution of Philip Orlyk in Old Ukrainian And why this old Ukrainian language is actually how you and I are talking now language is actually Russian language that's what's funny Come on stop you  read the Constitution you read
the Constitution of dust by Orlik what is it
called at all what is it called well
there is some pro it is not called
The Constitution is called direct
or pro open open and in the original
Try to read it Well in the original I
read Well open now I just have
this  Interest Russian language Poma Here is here
Open Yes open Yes open now we will
hear real Russian open in the
original yes
text Old in Old Ukrainian yes
he calls himself Philip there and not Philip come on come on
how are you
Read something I can't find anything  then they don't
want to show Well, you even have it
in Latin, come on, come on,
come on, you have it in Latin, you have it
Come on, come on, look, I'm on
Wikipedia, look at Wikipedia, Constitution
Lika, everything is there, Latin, book, hundred-
year-old type, everything is there, come on, I'm
interested  will
you read it Let's see now how similar it
will be to Russian
Why can't I
find the text  I don't know maybe Dial
Staroukolovo
stop stop stop not you you some kind of you
some kind of adaptation take the original it's
not an adaptation it's just a tracing of
this
No well this is basically Russian language
Well what are you doing Come on come on daime such
I personally have this version No it is that's
what no it's not like that look
Come on open the original Open the original You
you are already reading an adapted translation into
Russian and not the original here I
have the original
and you will start
reading Well you know I can't find
it in large format  a whole sheet and very poor
quality so Take there is text there
Type the text it gives you uh
this transcription Well, I read the transcription you
now this no this is you
translation translation into Russian You read here I
see it doesn't write like that I
don't know I can't find here
ok okay in the name of Come on read this in the
name of once again what you write Well in the
name of the father and the son and the holy spirit of the
glorious God in the Trinity Let it happen for
eternity Stop everything You see this is the translation  stop
All because in reality it says
let it be and not a translation and not Let it be your
translation this is Pony and all the people for a couple of
Russian I will send you
with open open the link here Open there
is on the book this Open and you will read it
now Open I will give you the link directly  threw
about you now they will block and I will pay
there 7 dollars like you are rich here he
sends me donations
Well the agreement and the decrees of the rights of
freedom of wax boundaries
I am the nobles by his grace pan Philip
Orlik here Philip newly elected by
the army of the Zaporizhian hetman and boundaries of
general persons colonels and the
same army of the Zaporizhian  with full on both
sides Them and not them and that's right Well, you
understand that If you read you
don't No, you just read specifically the
way you need Come on, I'm watching
Come on, not them and that's Yes, Colonel No,
you know If you From any
document then  the same thing again
look again come on read as it is with you
let's go then let me find the same
Zaporozhian army with a full slaughter of the sides
I will gladden the confirmed and with the wave and
lecture the formal oath of
the same clear noble
hetman confirmed by fate from not
confirmed No no not confirmed defeated Overthrown subject to
fate I will
stand to them from another Holy Spirit of God in
Glory to the Trinity, let it be, let
it be. Do you
know what language they can still speak in the villages of the Belgorod region
because they speak
Ukrainian in the villages of the Belgorod
region, the Ukrainian language, let it be in
Ukrainian, let it be in your language, let it be what
you read then, this is a translation of Zaporizhian
and all of the Naro-Little Russian language, read it well
read let it be Yes You have a Little Russian people
read Hi read let it be all
Ukrainian patriots read let it be Well read on Well let it be It will
become It will become
in the dawn of the
All-Russian Little Russian
horror memory they called it that way they called it the
Russian Empire they called it Little Russian Well and
why did Philip Orlik call his people not Ukrainian but Little Russian because at that time they called it that way now We are called Ukrainians Yes in 100 years we can call ourselves there for example Martians And so on Yes also like Iranians Yes that's what kind of people Iranians were really And in the 10th century the Iranians became Gop for some reason they were Iranians a very, very long time ago they were gone they were first Iran and the Persian language is true and here it is the same and you look and now look look and now show me where it is written that you are Russian you Stalin came up with this before you called some kind of great Russians it's completely unclear how Well why great Russians there were no varieties of Russian Well look with what let's say so Since what century did you start calling yourselves Russians Well you know it comes from Rus' and Rus is we who are coming Rus is Kyiv well all the Kiev Elite turned on again look here the metropolitan left for Moscow and where are you who lived there from  you became Russian you were from Moscow, Vologda, etc. you were not Russian when you became Russian No, let's say Metropolitan of Kiev of all Russia, the title of the official Greek once again once again once again No, not of all Russia but of all Rus all Rus' no the Greeks don't have the word Russia once again as there is no word Rus stop stop stop that is the Greeks who baptized Rus they did not have the word Rus Yes there was no they called Russia once again damn Come on Russia is Rus once again once again once again look here Russia did not exist Belarus so yes but Rus ru Rus for Rus Rus for the Greeks - what territory was it from Novgorod to Kyiv this is Kiev no Kiev Moscow look again Moscow look Moscow was never for the Greeks Rus Is that what you think Moscow was never for anyone Rus Why Because Rus' such there also lived Slavic tribes there even Pol Slavia captivity ve wait stop in Poland Slavic tribes what is that
Rus in the Balkans Slavic tribes that is ru And this is one and secondly in the Moscow region no these Slavic tribes lived where the Vladimir princes no Slavic tribes lived there lived Ugric tribes know but I know I know that in Ukraine since the time confrontation between the Galician principality and Vladimir that they constantly divided Kyiv Under whom will Kyiv be and constantly fought there in the 11th century until the Mongols came galloping and they are not both both of these principalities this There was this propaganda that the Vladimirites are somehow not like that and in the end A I understood I understood that is, Ukrainians have been doing propaganda since the 10th century that Vladimir is a creep, I understand Well, you see, you have an inferiority complex, so I understand, I understand, that is, I heard you correctly, yes, that since the 10th century we have been doing propaganda that Vladimir residents are somehow different Yes, that is It was These were the two largest and most powerful Kyiv led from the 10th century  Propaganda for its population against Who is stronger then on the topic of Kyiv you understand so look again let's do it people who lived Slavs on the territory of Kievan Rus before they now live on the territory of Chernigov Kievan there so yes regions Yes and parts of Belarus people who people who p people people who lived in the Vladimir region those Finno Ugrians they became there now their Heirs live there What's good about it Moscow is a small city because in 100 years literally here 1380 Kulikovo battle end of the 14th century Moscow becomes the largest city Where did the population come from t we are destroying the city, at the time of Ivan the Terrible it is estimated at 200,000 people Ivan Moscow more than 100,000 What do the Slavs have to do with it The thing is that the region there was very sparsely populated their main army was the horse your Ukraine is all in the steppe and the horse Tatar Mongol felt itself in in these conditions she was just like at home, she could do whatever she wanted, she burned, she beat the population
took away into slavery and this population it basically fled from these territories was wait again look again or Western Ukraine Here we are on the account they fled on the account they fled look when the Mongols took Moscow And when they took Kyiv earlier than Kiev could from Moscow run to Kyiv but not the other way around m you know besides what was Here is the first Invasion major permanent Invasion Wait wait again look again look again Moscow was taken by the Mongols and was already under the Mongols then the Mongols attack Kyiv and the Kievans from Kyiv flee from the Mongols in under Mongolian I understood you correctly there were no Mongols there they galloped up and galloped away there were no You understand basically all this yoke was due to the fact that pay money the Basque galloped up with a detachment to him there the same in Moscow to pay off probably 90 percent no how much did you say that from They fled to Kyiv
Moscow how much is it this is such a feeling that it was on a plane bought tickets and in short flew over so well no but I can tell you that let's say from Chernigov all the surviving population of Chernigov moved to Bryansk because Bryansk is one of the few cities that the Mongols forgot to destroy didn't notice galloped wait So stop Bryansk Bryansk is just Ukraine it is Rus' part of Belgorod Bryansk is Ukraine Well well these are our Lands population gradually population gradually these are swampy wooded places because there are Tatar-Mongols there I feel very bad what's the point look let's do it again again look again if so let's do it uh Tatar-Mongols were driven out of Kiev region And so on What year do you know 14th century battle on blue waters now now now this is not a spill it just showed that We have learned to beat you and be iry 1362 year Battle on blue waters Yes Lithuanian-Russian the army is ours  here are
the Rus and the Lithuanians,
yes, against the Tatars, yes,
everything was in
1362, Lithuania came here and won back your
cog,
tell me the year when you freed yourself from the
Tatar-Mongol yoke,
1480, but that was the final overthrow,
stop-stop, that is, according to your data,
it was 100 years later  Kiev was liberated
Kiev was not liberated from the battles during the
battle of these again again again again
look at the territory of
1399 Vitovt the Great is coming
again look I'm turning off the sound
again so look at the territory of Rus Yes
modern Ukraine was liberated from the
Tatar-Mongols much earlier than the
territory  moscow you
agree
No again in what year in what year in
what year did you free yourself from the Horde in
your opinion b Well somewhere probably also in the years
you in the ykh you
in you let's say about yourself about Russians
Moscow When did you free yourself from the
Mongol Tatars
iga
1480 wait you already played 1500 stop
stop stop Well, damn, well,
damn, well, let's say in the Belgorod
region the last Crimean campaign of the Tatars
Tatar Crimean raid took place in 1700
or so raids were regular after that and
that's it Yes, tell me when you were freed
When did you and the Russians free themselves from the
Tatars Mongol Arda 480 year is that
official figure stopped
paying I mean stopped paying not
if stopped paying Tribute look
Peter I also paid Tribute to the Crimean
Khan well that's funny look really
look No well maybe he paid
let's do it like that now look now Tribute of
Moscow Metropolitan of
Kiev I te PPP Look I te
ses So I'm turning off the sound for you so that you
don't talk for now, look, so here's the
funeral, payments, so payments, Yes, the
Moscow state, the Crimean Khan,
Khan, until the 10th century, until the century, so here's the cheat,
payments were
476, Ivan III pays Mingli Gray,
Yes, he went to Crimea
further, the 10th century  type
further, the 10th century  type1564 so Davlet gerey then Crimean Khan Davlet gerey destroyed Moscow in 1571 yes And again they paid tribute so so Moscow did not refuse to pay tribute but argued about the size so after the end of time in 1615 the practice of payments to the Crimean Khanate Yes Moscow was fixed by a treaty Since then they were made annually age m Khan is part of the Horde Yes it is part of the Horde Western Horde is part of the Horde once again PPP so by the state so so so so further Here from 8 to 1680 there was a break in payments paradise peace treaty then again like paid to the khan like and payments so stopped in 1685 Since then, Russia has been looking for an opportunity to cancel the commemoration officially, in particular, in the draft peace treaty between Russia and Crimea in 1692, there was a phrase And so on, that is, it turns out that you paid until the end of the 17th century Yes, Kyiv did not pay tribute, Kiev did not pay tribute to Lithuania, Kyiv with Lithuania was in the United State
Kyiv didn't pay Yes, [ __ ], didn't pay Yes, show me what the payment of tribute to Kyiv in Lithuania was Show me, read it Open it and read it In general, the state is Russian and Samogitian, you understand, and then when they made it unified with Poland, it became the only unified state Rich po-lita Nobody there is tribute paid It was like this, like the Federation you have the Russian Federation and now different sube Yes, no one paid that is, look, you paid Yes, can you tell me the date of Independence from the Golden Horde you have 480 480 who received stopped receiving the label for reigning from father to son they started to transfer power back in 1380 on the Kulikovo field they beat the Tatars this is the Kulikovo field Kulikovo field is a fake why is it a fake it is a fake if Dmitry is this bobrok Volynsky who is a prince and archaeologists archaeologically still have not found any of this Kulikovo and the blue waters do not know anything where the milita is beat on the thief also unclear speech and there  It is not clear you understand
measles come on come on when when
then your your state was formed
then from 1400 what year from the yuriko dynasty
united in the Habsburgs Yes they ruled in
many countries You tell me Well
the branch is not again look not Well you
understand well and yours is clear When
it appeared  Look, we are modern Ukraine
modern Ukraine Yes, it appeared in
1991 and declared independence Yes,
before that, the Ukrainian People's
Republic declared independence in
1917 your state Yes, modern Ukraine
appeared in
1991 just like ours,
well, we trace our roots back to the Soviet Union from the
Russian Empire no, no, stop, stop, stop  The
Soviet Union is a different state,
it was a union of different countries. Well,
this is the Russian Republic of the
Federative Republic, and the Republic, that is, it
turns out that the history of your country
begins in 1917 or whatever. No,
well, sorry, the same people lived and
spoke the same language.  language the
same religion there well the
form changed there it was
super super That is I understood correctly
that Kievan Rus is Ukraine according to  according to your
formula, the same people lived on the
same territory yes yes Well,
stop, stop, stop Look, you're
talking now What are you saying there, the Russian
Empire, because the same
people lived on the same territory and so on
I am now  I say Kievan Rus and Ukrainians
lived the same people on the same
territory, you have the same religion, but stop,
stop, stop That is, you start there,
far away, there, not far away,
yes Well, it is enough to remember
that with what wording in the chronicles
Save everything in general,
no, no, not yet  once again look again
come on so you said the formula the same
people on the same territory and so on it
turns out Ukraine is Kievan Rus the
same people on the same territory And you don't
have Well you have no relation to
Kievan Rus You are not the same  people and not
on the same territory why Well look
again let's do it this way Kievan Rus and
Ukrainians we are the same people on the same
territory everything coincided
we you stop you Kursk is a part of Ukraine
captured for ro it is also a part of Ukraine
Yes yes Kurri we are not ourselves  we consider
Ukrainians once again  once because
you you you were dropped you understand you were dropped
Look Kursk region is
part of Voronezh Yes these are our original
territories of Kievan Rus Yes we must
return them back because they
belong to us by right Yes when the Mongols
attacked Yes on us in Rus Yes they took
and gave here  with this some kind of their
governor where there was Moscow Suzdal
yes That's because they caved in to the
Mongols Armed Forces you
Belgorod Belgorod region Bryansk
region Voronezh Yes these are our original
lands there our Ukrainian people Yes
who lived in the times of Rus there and
now live Yes now they are forced
speak some Russian
language they close schools Ukrainian And
also in the Soviet Union under Lenin
how many were there according to the census No
look take the census of the twentieth century
and look how many were
speaking Ukrainian in the Belgorod region about
nebo in these look I'll send you now
cool map so
now map Yes in my Stary Oskol 92%
were Russians and  7% of Ukrainians So
how much do you think about this Now I'll send you a very
beautiful
map of the Russian Empire census by
Vitas,
here's a visualization by languages, look
Open this map and choose, for example, the
same year 1897, there's a map there, look,
right here, choose a map of the spread of
Ukrainian  everything You need to look at this by
districts, by districts, like this, you poke at your
district, like this, now we poke at it, it
won't let me in, it's blocked
by resources. Now I'll read to you right
now, foreign agents. There are foreign agents
now, like this,
Kursk,
Kharkov. Well, I, I, I know that
Belgorod  25% would go there, so
Valuysky, look, Valuysky eats, Valuyki,
this is your Belgorod region, no,
look at the census, it means, yes, Little Russian,
and this has been
Russified for years, and how many are left, so what do
you know, this is a very important question because they
lived in villages, for example, a Russian
village, a Ukrainian village  and marriages between
Ukrainians
and Russians were very rare so Novooskolsky district Novooskolsky district Kursk province this was true there yes then Ukrainian 51% Great Russian 48 that is and there was a majority not so not 50 even Ukrainians were more look the end of this it turns out the end of the 10th century the century of Russification and still Ukrainians it doesn't matter anymore That is, these are our ethnic territories, not Ukrainians appeared in the century again Look, these are our territories, our territories of Kievan Rus, for example, Maze, it was illegal to take away from us, yes By what right? Show the agreement Yes By what right did you, let's say, take Kievan lands for yourself, Kievan lands lands treaty of 1654 no stop stop stop no no look here again there was Kievan Rus more Kievan Rus Yes who gave you the right who gave you the right yes to take our lands Ukrainian villages appeared the Mongols came That is you want to say now who gave you independence from Kyiv Mongols of what Kyiv Well, let's go again Vladimir Suzdal all of them  everyone depended on Kyiv the center of Rus was Kyiv so Well and before there was Novgorod that's when no there was no Novgorod when there was Novgorod when there was Novgorod not Hang out just tell me when Novgorod was the capital of Rus Show me when Rurik arrived what Rurik Rurik is a mythical character what Rurik Hello excuse me a whole dynasty comes from him some guy came to marry him invite him forget everything Novgorod was never the capital of Rus' the capital of Rus' was only Kyiv show Oleg Veshchev Come again once again Oleg Veshchev is also a mythical character only a mythical character he is both Rurik and Oleg prophetic is found in the Tale of Bygone Years which was written 300 years later, or 200 years later, that is, Novgorod was never the capital. Well, Novgorod was never the capital of Rus, all sources are pre-Mongol, and Kievan Rus has survived on the territory of Russia in Ukraine, not a single source once again No you are not a bass story
look again so Novgorod is officially the capital of Kievan Rus that is the capital of Rus was Kyiv and only Kyiv Rus had no other capitals Rodya I will tell you more that the state called Kievan Rus never really existed because there was just Rus this was invented later by Kievan Rus Yes, to invent some kind of there was that Muscovite Rus and so on Yes Rus was only one with the center in Kyiv everything Well it is clear Rus there were no Novgorods there was a capital no I am telling you that then prisko again again no look take archeology Novgorod in century Perekop it already lengthwise across no archaeological layer Yes there in the 6th and 10th centuries there is no well because there was Rurik's settlement it is not Look what a settlement Well look if the capital is Kyiv yes Kiev from the 1st century there is archeology Yes there were settlements there was a city Bolshoi Yes in Novgorod Yes appears the end of the ninth beginning of the tenth century only because Modern Novgorod is located on a vacant lot therefore it is Novgorod And earlier in the 2nd century  Novgorod was located Rurik's Settlement wait So stop stop Rurik came from Novgorod or from Rurik's Settlement damn he came from somewhere in Sweden So let's do it to Kyiv the capital was moved from Novgorod or from Rurik's Settlement And during the time of Yaroslav the Wise or even Vladimir Novgorod was attached to Kyiv Novgorod already was or was not was so You said that there was Rurik's settlement And novgo what time come on there was some Rurik's settlement but Novgorod as a city and the name Novgorod did not exist so it was called Novgorod they just moved it 2 km it's somewhere around 20 km they just brought it from one side of the river to the other side of the river, let's go like this, the 6th and 10th century, that's the one you're talking about. No archeology shows that there is now a Rurik settlement there from the 5th century, it shows that people lived there again, look, people lived there, yes, there are 10 people in the city there. there was no city there was no capital of Russia there was a city and Kyiv was
small What Kyiv is small Are you kidding Well you say there are 1st century You understand that centuries come on come on so good when Vladimir baptized Rus what size was Kiev what Novgorod I can tell you that Kiev there occupied 400 hectares of territory here archaeologists archaeologically once again population Tell me by population how much was Kyiv by population how much is Novgorod difficult by hectares you can say Kyiv 450 hectares Novgorod 380 hectares this this this is at the maximum Well population How is your chronicles estimated w chronicles Well well in Novgorod 40,000 in Kiev 50,000 so stop then Novgorod turns out to be 40,000 they didn't move it across the river it was already some huge city Well naturally where is this archeology It's a big city enough I'm not showing you now Look I'm showing you right now Vladimir on Klyazma was still big 300 hectares Vladimir nak g 300 g would that is, modern Vladimir Yes, he did the same thing even later  Vladimir Monomakh
founded unknown maybe even and the saint
who is Red Sun so so so
look well Vladimir is preparing for the
millennium of his celebration so yes
Hi God what do you want so so
so Yes stop being a bastard
so look I'm
sending you a link to Wikipedia Yes
open your Russian Wikipedia
Veliky Novgorod Yes, the official
date of the foundation of Novgorod is considered to be 859.
You count it then by the first
mint, wait, by the first mention in the
late Nikon
Chronicle of the 15th century, that is, in the Nikon
Chronicle of the 15th century they wrote Yes, that
Novgorod was founded in the year 9. That is, in
700 years, in 700 years  some
Russian monk wrote that Novgorod was in
859 That is, you also think that he is
based on it But this is a fake, like, yes,
then look In the Tale of Bygone
Years it was created in the 12th century Yes, it is mentioned that the
city was in 862 That is, this is also 400 years later
years about the city
this is not historical Yes, however, the chronicles could refer the existence of the city to this time retrospectively since the Rhone archaeological layers of Novgorod reliably date back to the time no earlier than the 930s Look at this Dial another Rurikovo gorod again look again Read Read again reliably dated archaeological layers of Novgorod date back by the time no earlier than 9 that there was Rurik's settlement a small settlement look again according to archaeologists Novgorod appeared around the turn of the -1st century or at the beginning of the 10th century you know so this population that's what Moscow is there young like and the assertion that Prince Igor founded there Moscow there too again again again again Look you read what I read not fables from summer you say yuriko Dial Rurikovo settlement Rurikovo settlement Yes it's not Novgorod It's just like these city expanded let's say so Kyiv Kyiv look again look Come on do you agree with what archaeologists say yes they say  So we looked, yes It turns out that when Kyiv already existed Novgorod was not even in sight, this only appeared later in the chronicles Yes, someone came up with the idea that it was like some kind of such and such Novgorod expanded So they decided that it would be better to live there because there are very steep skis and they built fortress walls it was very convenient I was in Novgorod and saw St. Sophia of Novgorod there the eldest son of Yaroslav the Wise reigned there he built St. Sophia of Kyiv there he was buried to this day in Gru it is complicated I will send you now in the Russian Encyclopedia in Novgorod it's so simple look it turns out you think Novgorod is somehow there that it was earlier than Kyiv simply because somewhere in the late chronicles someone wrote something like 400 years later I will write that Grozny was founded earlier than Moscow Yes for rent and you will consider so uh that this is a nut Rurikovo Settlement some Rurikovo Settlement yours that is iron
early metal in short iron age Early Iron Age since the time that is the second is the first Rurikovo settlement is also the Iron Age Iron Age is to our good I understand everything we play such a game look I open Kiev I open Kyiv then since you remembered the Iron Age on this Now we will finish now we are like this Moscow too vos ve all now we you once Iron Age look so history archaeological excavations show that settlements on the territory of Kyiv yes existed 1525 15-25 000 years ago period Elite is represented by Trypillian culture and so on Everything you lost Rurikovo settlement Settlement Iron Age yes And here in short the Paleolithic all this is just [ __ ] awesome in the Iron Age they dug up so let's go subscribe to y Telegram right now axis win and popk this is very and very important YouTube takes us through scarg or in ny ban and very many videos I don't show people sometimes I don't show information about  stream To that for
us Mali operational link
is written right now and while there in telegram
okm video there is also interesting and useful
information and we will oblige with you to receive
constant operational link independently
in that will show you about it YouTube
Glory to Ukraine write